# Funflow I/O proposal

This document records the discussion about the possibilities regarding funflow input/output system for tasks.

## Goal

One of the goals of funflow is to give a mean to chain tasks that run commands in the most user-friendly way while still insuring "maximum safety" using Haskell powerful type system.

A recurring issue about other pipelining tools (e.g. Airflow) is that they do not have any notion of input/output (i/o).
That is, when writing a task, intermediate results are stored (for instance on disk, but it could be on HDFS/S3/etc...) to a given path.
In order for the following task to use said results, it has to read from the exact same path.
This means that:

- the path has to be the exact same for all tasks that use the same ressources (as input or output), if not this leads runtime failure and confusing bugs
- the path has to be known before running the pipeline, hence it can't be dynamic, which means no caching using CAS

`funflow` wants to tackle those challenges and give an alternative view of workflow tools by giving a I/O notion to tasks (now _flows_).

## Criterions

- _Standardness_: the solution should be based on simple and expected concepts that are widly used
- _Ease of use_: the I/O system should be understandable without advanced Haskell knowledge, using moslty concepts and structures common to other programming languages
- _Efficiency_: we should be able to pass huge content around (e.g. datasets)

## Propositions

### What should be the input of a task?

#### `String`/bytestring/equivalent to stdin

In this case, the input type of a command flow should be `String` or related.

Pros:

- Standard
- Ease of use

Cons:

- Not very efficient (can't input/output big content)
- Not adapted to all kind of i/o (e.g. binary content)
- Require some work on the used apps to consume stdin

#### `CS.Item`

`funflow` v1 system.

Pros:

- Standard

Cons:

- Less user-friendly
- Uses CAS
- Should be deterministic: how do you pick a hash? Dynamic computation is hard to figure and not always content-addressable

Since we want to avoid using CAS, better look for other alternatives independant of it (e.g. `Path Abs t`).

#### `Path Abs t`

Pros:

- Standard
- Ease of use

Cons:

- Only one path can be given through this exact type

In order to be able to pass more than one path, we have to think of a mechanism. See below.

#### `l -> Path Abs t` or equivalent

Some sort of "tagging" mechanism to allow to replace some labels in the args in order by mapping labels to paths.
One would then define args like so

```haskell
args = [StringArg "--input", AbsFileArg "file1"]
```

and using `OverloadedStrings` one could even write

```haskell
args = ["--input", AbsFileArg "file1"]
```

The following package can ensure completness of labels: http://hackage.haskell.org/package/type-level-sets-0.8.9.0

Example:

```haskell
toStringArgs :: (Submap s m, CommandArgWith a (KeysOf s)) => [a] -> m -> [String]
```

where `m` belongs to the flow inputs.

### What should be the output of a task?

#### `String`/equivalent from stdout

Seems like an important output in many cases.

Notes:

- Combining with a PureFlow can help make an "understandable" output (e.g. read a number from this String), and gives a more "complete" flow.
  It is then not necessary to add this inteperetation mechanism inside of the command flow mechanism.

## Current proposal

- `stdin` and `stdout` are very broadly used I/O system for many commands, it seems important to handle them.
- Passing files around is important, most of the time commands expect to consume their paths as arguments.

| Input  | <ul><li>Mapping `Ressource label -> Path Abs t`</li><li>Text to `stdin`</li></ul>  |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Output | <ul><li>Mapping `Ressource label -> Path Abs t`</li><li>Text of `stdout`</li></ul> |

A command will be defined by a function that takes the mapping of ressource labels.

Those labels:

- are set as required or optional
- can be used in command `args`

Required labels:

- are verified to be completly covered by the given mapping, using the type system if possible

## Other points

### Caching

It is not said that all command tasks results should be cached.
We should prefer a solution that does not use the CAS by default, and rather let caching at a higher level using kernmantle `caching` function.

### Limiting effects

In order to achieve reproducibility, we are tempted to provide a mechanism to ensure it such as locking the command execution to a directoy from which it can only access given elements

However this is hard to achieve:

- since we see a command as a mutation, e.g. of the filesystem, we have to copy all inputs to keep it as pure as possible, but then one needs to copy all input files: how do you do that if those files are too big?
- limitating effects on the filesystem is doable, at least to some degree, but how do you limitate effects that use Internet for instance?

While introduces many technical issues, it also makes the tool more complex to use even for basic tasks.

The current direction would be to drop this idea for now and promote the use of Docker/Nix.
